---
layout: post
title: Personal Statement
date: 2023-10-23 15:09:00
description: a self-introduction
tags: physics academics
categories: 
featured: true
---

In this blog I will introduce myself and explain why I plan to apply for master/PhD in physics. 

My academic voyage began at Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU), where I initially enrolled in a Bachelor of Medicine program in September 2019. However, I soon realized that my fascination gravitated more towards natural sciences, particularly physics, rather than medicine which lacked the mathematical and analytical rigor I craved. Unfortunately, institutional policies restricted me from attending lectures outside my designated campus, thus limiting my access to physics courses.

Undeterred, I sought avenues to bridge the gap between my major and my interests. In September 2019, I joined Professor Wei Wei’s 2D material research group as an undergraduate researcher to explore innovative methods of producing high-quality graphene. My efforts culminated in assembling a dedicated team of students from diverse majors like physics, mechanics, and biology. Our goal was to refine the traditional electrochemical exfoliation method for graphene production while employing Quantum-Chemical Calculations to validate our approach. Despite facing initial setbacks during autumn 2019, our resolve was only strengthened.

The outbreak of COVID-19 in early 2020 forced a hiatus in our experimental endeavors as access to the laboratory became restricted. During this hiatus, I spearheaded a shift towards theoretical groundwork by initiating a comprehensive review of core theoretical physics concepts amongst my research group. Our journey began with *Landau Vol. 1*, diving into analytical mechanics. The allure of constructing a coherent theoretical framework from the principle of least action ignited a deeper passion for theoretical physics within me. I shared this enthusiasm by hosting an [Analytical Mechanics Seminar](https://arendelle-ftl.github.io/projects/1_project/) online in April 2020.

With the advent of Autumn 2020, our research into graphene production resumed. Our innovation involved modifying an electrolytic cell, which paved the way for further exploration into electrodynamics to elucidate our method. Realizing the hurdles in advancing my knowledge in theoretical physics due to institutional barriers, I reached out to peers from the University of Science and Technology of China (USTC) and Nanjing University (NJU) to establish an 'Inter-University Forum of Science.' This initiative blossomed into a vibrant platform fostering collaborative learning and research. Notable events like [research sharing sessions](https://chaoli.club/index.php/5917) and [winter seminars](https://chaoli.club/index.php/6119) enriched my curiosity, particularly towards astrophysics and theoretical physics. In the 2021 winter seminar, I hosted a [Classical Electrodynamics seminar](https://arendelle-ftl.github.io/projects/2_project/), where I explored topics such as special relativity, electromagnetic field equations, and radiation damping, referencing *Landau Vol.2*. Additionally, this seminar series featured a [General Relativity Seminar](https://chaoli.club/index.php/6128) hosted by [Qinxun Li](https://qxli2333.github.io/), now a PhD student at Utah University, and a [Statistical Mechanics Seminar](https://chaoli.club/index.php/6131) hosted by Tingjun Zhang, now a PhD student at Rice University. Their scholarly progression and the level of discourse during these seminars further affirmed my aspiration for advanced study in theoretical physics. The collaborative nature of these seminars, coupled with the engaging discussions, further fueled my desire to delve deeper into theoretical physics and share this knowledge with others.

Spring 2021 marked significant progress in our graphene project. We not only completed primary experiments but also delved into electrodynamics modeling to interpret our results. Our work was showcased at the XJTU 'Tengfei Cup' Technology Innovation Competition, as highlighted [here](https://arendelle-ftl.github.io/research/1_project/). Concurrently, I led a [Quantum Mechanics Seminar](https://arendelle-ftl.github.io/projects/3_project/) to prepare a potential Quantum-Chemical Calculation to explore the effects of ion intercalation on our graphene production method. Although interrupted by my medical course examinations, this experience underscored the necessity of further mathematical proficiency, prompting me to study Fourier analysis, complex analysis, topology, differentiable manifold, and abstract algebra over the subsequent year.

I further formalized the 'Inter-University Forum of Science' into the United Academic Forum of Basic Science for Undergraduates, serving as [the Executive Secretary-General](https://chaoli.club/index.php/6830) from September 2021 to February 2022. This role honed my organizational and collaborative skills, as demonstrated during the 2022 winter seminar. The seminar featured an [Electrodynamics Seminar](https://chaoli.club/index.php/7053) hosted by [Xiaotian Feng](https://windsky.tech/) and [Jingyuan Wang](https://sites.google.com/view/jingyuanwang), which allowed participants to delve into advanced concepts and engage in enriching discussions. This collaborative effort further honed my organizational skills and underscored the importance of interdisciplinary dialogue in advancing understanding in theoretical physics

The recurring waves of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2022 restricted me to online learning, which, albeit challenging, provided a solitude for [reediting the English version of *Landau Vol.3*](https://github.com/Arendelle-ftl/Landau_3_reedited) using LaTeX. This period also allowed for a casual exploration into European history, broadening my intellectual horizon.

Come Autumn 2023, XJTU relaxed restrictions, allowing me to enroll in core physics courses including Quantum Mechanics, Thermodynamics and Statistical Physics I, Quantum Field Theory, General Relativity, and Group Theory. My academic roadmap for the next semester includes Theoretical Mechanics, Electrodynamics, and Complex Analysis, aligning me closer to the academic requisites of a physics major.

In conclusion, my academic trajectory, though initiated in clinical medicine, veered passionately towards theoretical physics. The unyielding curiosity drove me to create educational platforms, lead seminars, and delve into collaborative research endeavors, all while navigating through the core curriculum of a physics major. I am now ardently pursuing a Master/PhD in Physics to further explore the mysteries of the natural world. No matter the challenges that lie ahead, my resolve is unshakeable, and my journey towards mastering theoretical physics is well underway.





